Headers aren't the only thing you can set, for many API endpoints,
you can also attach certain query parameters and of course again, it depends on the API endpoint you're
sending the request to, which query parameters are supported.
For example, the Firebase REST API and you can learn that in the official docs, supports one query parameter
which effect we can immediately see. You set parameters by adding the params
key here in that same config object where you added headers and you set params equal to new
HttpParams.
Now just as HTTP headers, you import HttpParams from @angular/common/http. Now
HttpParams works a bit differently than HTTP headers, there
you can call set and now you can set a param name and a value for that and there for example, you can
set print and that is a search param, a query param supported by Firebase, print and you set this
to a value, to pretty and this just changes the format in which Firebase returns its data.
Now if we save that,
this loads and now if I clear that and I click this again and we inspect this request, you see now it has
this query parameter attached to the end of the URL and of course you could have added this to
the URL yourself up there too,
you could have added print equals pretty up there and add, with an ampersand in-between, as many key
value pairs as you need or as your API endpoint supports.
You can do that here in the URL but by using this params config, it's a bit more convenient because
you don't need to concatenate a super long string, you simply set them here with the set method.
Now if you wanted to set multiple params, you can simply do this by adding a search params constant
or whatever you want to name it,
create your new params object there and now here, you can call search params append and append a new param
key-value pair, like print
pretty. Important
however, search params, this object is immutable, so you actually need to overwrite this and therefore
this needs to be a variable with a new, with the result of append.
So what you would do here in the end is you call append and this returns a new HttpParams object
and you store that new object which has these new key-value pairs added to it in the search params
variable, overwriting the old one, so you still have a HttpParams object in there but a new one. And
if you have multiple key-value pairs, then you simply repeat that step with append, the old ones
will be kept
but the new ones will be added to a new HttpParams object which will then replace the old
one by storing it in that same variable,
so here you could also have your custom key which is not supported by Firebase but you can send this, it
won't cause any harm and then you simply add your search params here for the params in your config
object and this is how you can attach multiple params if you want to.
We can see the effect here if I fetch,
now you see we have multiple search parameters attached.
Again you could have done that directly in the URL but by using the HttpParams object and the configuration
object,
it's a bit more convenient. Now by the way, in case you're wondering what these parameters do,
custom key does nothing,
that's just something I came up with,
it's not supported by Firebase but as I mentioned, it's also no problem if we add this. Print pretty does
something in the response,
it prints this in a more pretty way,
it adds some extra whitespace and line breaks so that this is a more human readable.
Absolutely does not matter for our app where we read this with our code anyways but I just wanted some
example to show how to add query parameters.